- We build tiny homes
because we like doing things
that people tell us can't be done.
Welcome to Tiny Ten.
- Turning what used to be a parking lot
into ten tiny homes
has been truly amazing.
My new tiny house,
it fits me and the dogs perfectly.
- [Narrator] Reno, Nevada.
Known as the biggest
little city in the world,
is living up to it's reputation
with a new tiny home development
that's big on design but
leaves a small footprint.
This is Tiny Ten.
A planned community of ten
energy efficient houses.
Each one measures around 650 square feet.
And has two floors.
They're designed to be compact
without sacrificing creature
comforts you'd expect
to find in a full sized house.
Each comes with a washer
and dryer, air conditioner,
a kitchen with slick appliances,
a private back yard, and a garage.
- We classified these as
kind of like a glove house.
It fits just right.
It's not too big, not too little.
We feel like our tiny houses
are more livable in the long term.
- [Narrator] Local developers Pam Haberman
and Kelly Rae are behind the project.
Both were early adopters of
the tiny living philosophy.
- The tiny home phenomenon,
we started thinking about it
probably about 20 years ago.
- [Narrator] In fact, their last home
was a compact 400 square feet,
which allowed them to live affordably
after the 2007 housing market crash.
- [Kelly] We lost pretty
much darn near everything.
We moved into a small
comfortable place to call home.
- [Narrator] Ever since,
they've taken on various
tiny home projects.
Tiny Ten is, by far, their most ambitious.
- This is very modern, very upscale,
just in miniature form.
I've had the vision for 11 years.
For people that want to down size,
or that want to simplify.
- [Narrator] That was the reason
for 32 year old Kevin Greenawalt.
One of the first residents
to move into Tiny Ten.
- I had previously owned
a 1600 square foot home.
It was a three bed, two and a half bath,
just way too big.
So I realized very quickly
that I needed less space
and something that was a
lot more manageable for me.
- [Narrator] His current
house spans two floors.
Has two bedrooms, and a bathroom.
- My new tiny house is
about 450 square feet
on the first floor.
Logan loves the stairs.
And then the loft is
another 200 square feet.
Kind of a multi purpose room.
A spare bedroom, if family
or friends come to stay.
And also an office.
Drop it.
And the downstairs space I want it to be
kind of the common area
where I have my entertainment
center down here.
And there is a really quick
access to the backyard
for the dogs.
All the houses are kind of
facing this communal area.
So it's very welcoming, very
inviting for the neighbors.
- [Narrator] Karen Prudy,
who moved two doors down from Kevin,
also came here to downsize.
And to save money.
As a recent retiree
and active grandmother,
affordable housing is critical
for maintaining her tight budget.
Karen bought this house
for about $220,000.
That's nearly half the cost of
an average new home in Reno.
Which typically runs $450,000.
- It's just horrendous what
you have to pay per month.
At these houses your
mortgage would be cheaper
than what they're paying for for rent.
Now, in my 60's, I
started looking at coming
more into downtown Reno.
And these were just opening up
and that was like have
that's exactly what I want.
- Tiny Ten is perfect
for the person who enjoys
proximity to their neighbors.
Who loves a downtown or urban environment.
Who cares about their footprint.
- [Narrator] Locating Tiny Ten
in the heart of downtown Reno
was essential to the project's success.
The development is
considered urban infill,
which is city planning speak
for recycling unused land.
- For every acre that you
develop in an infill setting,
four acres of open space are preserved.
We don't like to see the
mountain tops scraped off
and sprawl.
And what that means is, you know,
stay in the urban center,
and leave nature as nature.
- [Narrator] While one
development can't turn
an entire city around,
the philosophy it
embodies might be able to.
And in the meantime,
the community's residents are
feeling an immediate impact.
- I love that I'm retired.
I get to be at home.
But there's gonna be a lot of young people
I think it's just gonna be awesome.
- The fact that I know
my neighbors so well.
It's amazing.
This place definitely feels like home.